In this section we are going to discuss about quantifier used with regular expressions.
As the name speaks, it is about quantity.
Without discussing the jargons, let's jump into the practical examples.
The first quantifier is an asterisk.
It means zero or more times.
That is, if the pattern given is as star, then it returns all the characters in string with zero or
more matches.
Let's try it practically and then try to understand the output.
I'm going to declare a variable and say select str is equal to.
Now I have this and for this is I'm going to say more s characters.
So this is a trial string.
Now, let's create a pattern where I'll just say s and star.
Now, if I run this, as I have mentioned, that it matches zero or more times, that means if S is
not existing for each character in the string, then also it is return.
And if s is existing then also it returns.
So it is zero or more time.
So now you see that for each character in the string that is a blank space.
Or maybe character s is returned.
Of course, here you see that there are three S characters returned.
Now let's change the pattern as star and add one more character I before se and run the code.
Now the output explains that the pattern searches for is word, but character as can be zero or more
times.
And that is why AI is also returned, because in the last two values there is no character as existing.
That means it is zero times.
So first it exists one time in the second output value it is three times, and for third and fourth
it is zero times.
So this is the use of the asterisk quantifier.
The next quantifier we are going to discuss is a plus sign.
Plus sign searches for one or more occurrences of the given criteria.
So in the previous example, let's replace the asterisk with a plus sign and discuss the output.
So now it searches for a string, starting with a character I and X plus means at least one or more
occurrences of character.
SE And that is why we get both is where there is one s and I.
S s where it has more than one se character.
So plus for one or more occurrence, asterisk is zero or more occurrence.
Similarly, we have the next quantifier.
That is the question mark.
This sign searches for zero or one occurrences of given criteria.
Let's change the plus sign to question mark in the same coding and see the output.
So now it searches for a string, starting with a character I and SW means zero or one occurrences of
character.
SW And that is why we get is two times where there is an occurrence of character.
SW And I also two times as there is zero occurrence of character.
SW.
Let's try one more example to get a better idea.
I'm going to create a string which has hello and h l a So now the pattern searches for etch followed
by zero or one e.
So you get both.
Hello.
Where there is one E and etch A where there is zero e.
I have used W plus here, which is a character class.
So not to worry about it.
We are going to see that in detail.
But at the moment you need to focus on the concept of the question mark.
Let's move to the next quantifier now.
It's about giving a character with curly brackets and a number of characters.
So this quantifier will search for character, which occurs end times in a string.
Let's take a very simple example.
I'll select str.
Hello.
And second time I give only one l.
Now the pattern I'm going to create is that I want to search for word Hello in the string where there
is h e l Now I want that l should be two times then only that word should be return.
So I say curly brackets two and oh, of course the global search also given.
Let's try to run the match matter on it and run the code when L two is mentioned.
It means if there are two ls in the string then only it will return.
In short, you are giving number of occurrences in curly brackets with the same curly bracket.
You can also give a range as well, which is our next topic.
It is also possible to use range with this quantifier.
For example, I want to search for 2 to 4 L characters.
In that case, you can give the range with this syntax.
You can say curly brackets to come up for that means two, three or four.
Let's practically try it.
I will use the Hello world with different number of LS.
Now what I will do is inside the pattern.
I'm going to say h e l.
Now what I want is that it should return all the words which have two, three or four.
That is 2 to 4 ls is okay.
And then, of course, we try to run the match method.
Let's execute the code.
So now you get all the hellos where there are two, three or four L's and words where there is one or
five else that is less than two or more than four.
Then those words are not in the output list.
Now let's try to find All Hallows where there are three or more L's in the previous example we have
given to come up for that means 2 to 4.
That was the range which we gave.
But in case if you want words where there are three or more L characters, then we can avoid the value
which we mentioned after comma in previous example.
So now let's write the string with different number of LS in the Hello world and we create the pattern
where I'll say h e not a problem, but l I just want three that is more than three.
The second value after comma, we keep empty.
We don't give that value.
So this means all the hellos with more than three words will be retrieved.
Let's try to run the code.
As you can see that now we have all the values where L is three or more times occurring.